Overhaul of Monitoring landing page and Change wording of APM page (#31710)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/llm_observability/exploration_and_correlation/_index.md

---

> title: Exploration and Correlation

Reviewer: same comment as above - let's keep "monitoring"

description: Learn about how to explore more of your application in LLM Observability.
---

## Overview

Explore and analyze your LLM applications in production with tools for querying, visualizing, correlating, and investigating data across traces, clusters, and beyond.

Monitor performance, debug issues, evaluate quality, and secure your LLM-powered systems with unified visibility across traces, metrics, and online evaluations.

### Real-time Performance Monitoring

Monitor your LLM application's operational health with built-in metrics and dashboards:

> {{< img src="llm_observability/index/llm_dashboard.png" alt=" This image shows a built‑in dashboard highlighting LLM Observability metrics." style="width:100%">}}

Reviewer: could we use light mode screenshots instead of dark mode to keep all the screenshots consistent on this page?

- Request volume and latency: Track requests per second, response times, and performance bottlenecks across different models, operations, and endpoints.
- Error tracking: Monitor HTTP errors, model timeouts, and failed requests with detailed error context.
- Token consumption: Track prompt tokens, cached tokens, completion tokens, and total usage to optimize costs.
- Model usage analytics: Monitor which models are being called, their frequency, and performance characteristics.

> The out-of-the-box LLM Overview Dashboard provides consolidated views of trace-level and span-level metrics, error rates, latency breakdowns, token consumption trends, and triggered monitors.

Reviewer: Let's link out to: https://app.datadoghq.com/dash/integration/llm_operational_insights?fromUser=false&refresh_mode=sliding&from_ts=1758905575629&to_ts=1758909175629&live=true

### Production Debugging and Troubleshooting

Debug complex LLM workflows with detailed execution visibility:

> 

Reviewer: Let's use this screenshot (demo org): 
https://app.datadoghq.com/llm/traces?query=%40ml_app%3Acashri-v2&fromUser=false&sidepanelTab=flame-graph&sp=%5B%7B%22sp%22%3A%7B%22width%22%3A%22min%28100%25%2C%20max%28calc%28100%25%20-%20var%28--ui-page-left-offset%29%20-%2016px%29%2C%20900px%29%29%22%7D%2C%22p%22%3A%7B%22eventId%22%3A%22AwAAAZmHIJRqEzsZ4AAAABhBWm1ISUpScUFBQUh4RE51VDBNcEFBQUEAAAAkMDE5OTg3MjMtMWZlNC00MTJmLWI4MjMtYjI1NzI4OWJjOTdlAAAC-A%22%7D%2C%22i%22%3A%22llm-obs-panel%22%7D%5D&spanId=17956855298866897751&start=1758905379137&end=1758908979137&paused=false

Reviewer: reference screenshot: https://drive.google.com/file/d/1mJA-cHlRom6gcFc_LaAFw03KlNM0nIqL/view?usp=drive_link

- End-to-end trace analysis: Visualize complete request flows from user input through model calls, tool calls, and response generation.
- Span-level debugging: Examine individual operations within chains, including preprocessing steps, model calls, and post-processing logic.
- Identify root cause of errors: Pinpoint failure points in multi-step chains, workflows, or agentic operations with detailed error context and timing information.
- Performance bottleneck identification: Find slow operations and optimize based on latency breakdowns across workflow components.

### Quality and Safety Evaluations

> {{< img src="llm_observability/index/llm_example_eval.png" alt=" This image shows a built‑in dashboard highlighting LLM Observability metrics." style="width:100%">}}

Reviewer: let's use this screenshot: https://app.datadoghq.com/llm/traces?query=%40ml_app%3Ashopist-chat-v2%20%40event_type%3Aspan%20%40parent_id%3A%2A%20%40meta.evaluations.quality%3AHallucination&agg_m=count&agg_m_source=base&agg_t=count&fromUser=true&sp=%5B%7B%22sp%22%3A%7B%22width%22%3A%22min%28100%25%2C%20max%28calc%28100%25%20-%20var%28--ui-page-left-offset%29%20-%2016px%29%2C%20900px%29%29%22%7D%2C%22p%22%3A%7B%22eventId%22%3A%22AwAAAZmGjm_NgNhgwwAAABhBWm1Ham1fTkFBQks0TVhjZE5ITkFBQUEAAAAkMTE5OTg2YmYtZDkxNS00Y2JjLWEyODQtYmY0MjUwNzIyNGQ4AABbDA%22%7D%2C%22i%22%3A%22llm-obs-panel%22%7D%5D&spanId=15454183237764996295&start=1756317111016&end=1758909111016&paused=false

Reviewer: reference screenshot: https://drive.google.com/file/d/1p_d2ST-Busj9vBtkLxCt4DSgLNLEiEyv/view?usp=drive_link

> Ensure your LLM outputs meet quality standards with online evaluations. For comprehensive information about built-in quality checks, custom evaluation support, and safety monitoring capabilities, see the [Evaluations documentation][5].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ensure your LLM agents or applications meets quality standards with online evaluations. For comprehensive information about Datadog hosted and managed evaluations, ingesting any custom evaluations, and safety monitoring capabilities, see the [Evaluations documentation][5].
```
